if you've not comfortable there doing
anything on a bike any sort of
maintenance yourself I would go and see
a trusty engineer someone that you know
someone with a good reputation you're
gonna be riding around on a bike so the
reliability is in his hands
so you got to make sure you go to
someone that um you really do trust but
before you go on a long trip I would
make a real effort to sort of learn
about your bike because if you don't
learn about your bike if it goes wrong
you're not good you might not be near a
mechanic anything that can happen you
could fall off you could bend something
you can break something so I think
getting the real basic grasp on sort of
motorcycle mechanics and engineering
will go a long way and save you a whole
other hassle I like to break the bike
down into component parts of course
you've got the engine you've got the
chassis
you've got the fairings and fuel tank
and you've got all parts that swing and
move on the chassis so you can have the
wheels the swing arm things like the
chain and then finally most importantly
brakes you've got to make sure that the
the brakes are okay all the engines seem
pretty good and they seem pretty tight
I'm going to check that the final drive
Baron hasn't got any play in it because
that can leak oil I'm going to change
the oil in the engine and the oil filter
I'm also going to check all the tappets
in the rocker box to make sure that I'm
not tapping and they're within spec
after I've done that I would have
removed all the tank and the fairings
I'll inspect the frames and once I've
inspected the frames and I make sure
they're okay and they're not rusty and
they haven't got any weak weak points
I'll then move on to the moving parts
that on that are on the chassis and that
includes the swing arm all the
suspension linkages the mono shock
mounts and of course will bearings as
well once we have the wheel bearings
I'll then take the forks off the front
of the bike and which of these things
here these are the forks they go up into
these triple clamps and the triple
clamps are basically steer within the
chassis so they have barrington as well
I'm going to change the head race
bearings so with all the ball bearings
all the spring arm bearings all the
suspension bearings the head race
bearings and then once I've done all of
that I'll then move on to the brakes
yeah I think my first mechanical spear
and it's just when I was about maybe
eight or nine years old and as a present
for me my dad bought me a moped but what
he didn't tell me was the moped was in
bits so he took me to the garage and
there's just this old blue frame and two
boxes of bits and I was really excited
thinking that's kind of a motorbike but
I think that was my training really he
said you can have this motorbike if you
put it back together so I laid with a
bit sound worked out what connected to I
didn't have any drawings or Haynes
manuals that we have nowadays and with
my dad's help we rebuilt it